# Tools to parse ABBYY XML into EPUB3

This module transforms ABBYY XML documents, generated by ABBYY FineReader 10,
into primitively accessible ePub 3. The code is optimized for ABBYY XML
documents created by the Internet Archive, though it may work for other ABBYY
XML as well. 

## Features
1. Unicode-compliant
1. Can handle left-to-right and right-to-left text.

## Limitations
1. Accessibility is inherently limited by the input ABBY FineReader documents. If
they are marked up with headings and other semantic markup, that structure
will be incorporated into the ePub.
1. There is currently no functionality for image description.
1. The module can also transform ABBYY XML documents generated by ABBYY
FineReader 6. However, those documents are not marked up with headings, so
there is no structural navigation for accessibility.

## Requirements

* Python 3
* If running epubcheck, a Java Runtime environment

## Usage

From within a Python program:

```python
from abbyy_to_epub3 import create_epub
book = create_epub.Ebook('docname')  # See *Assumptions* below.
book.craft_epub()
```

From the shell:

```bash
 python bin/create_epub.py styleliterarymet00cadb

```

## Installation

This package can be installed on your local system. From the directory
containing setup.py:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
python setup.py develop
pip install .
```

### System dependencies

If you'd like to run Epubcheck, there are certain system dependencies.
Depending on running environment, these may need to be manually installed.
On Ubuntu, I installed these with:

```bash
sudo apt-get install default-jre libpython3-dev
```

### Testing

Run `py.test` from the top-level app directory. Create new tests in the `tests`
subdirectory.

### Assumptions

This application assumes you are working in a directory which contains a
subdirectory for the document and a specific set of files. If the document is
named `docname`, the directory structure assumed is:

```bash
docname/
    docname_abbyy.gz
    docname_meta.xml
    docname_jp2.zip
```

* `docname_abbyy.gz` unzips to `docname_abbyy`, an XML file generated by
  ABBYY.
* `docname_jp2.zip` unzips to a directory called `docname_jp2`, which includes
  a number of documents in the format `docname_####.jp2`. 
** `docname_0000.jp2` is scanner calibration.
** `docname_0001.jp2` is the cover image and the first image reference in the
ABBYY.

## TODO

1. Testing:
    1. A method for optionally running Epubcheck
    1. Accessibility testing
